+++
title = "Book: \"Borderlands\" by Pradeep Damodaran"
date = 2019-09-12T11:33:40+05:30
type = "post"
+++

I was looking for a book about travel. I had never read one! While I was
confused between a few books, I came across my ex-manager's [review of
"Borderlands"](https://medium.com/@sankarshan/at-borders-and-at-margins-4b9c5c158c4d).
I have long been intrigued by his taste in books and after reading his review
of ["Borderlands"](https://amzn.to/2N9N63t), I decided to take it up for my
next read.

I don't feel particularly proud in saying that I didn't know pretty much any of
the border towns covered by the author in this book with the sole exception of
Gangtok. And so reading "Borderlands" was really informative for me. It
satiated my thirst for a travel book and left me thinking.

### We take a lot for granted

"Borderlands" made a case for the numerous things (privileges?) that we
city-dwellers take so easily for granted while the people in border towns have
to struggle for it on a regular, if not daily, basis. I guess it's not just the
border towns, but even the villages around our cities have to struggle for many
things. For example, having lived in different parts of Gujarat and
Maharashtra, I think it should be mandatory for people from Ahmedabad and
Mumbai to live in a smaller town or village for at least a month.

Potable water, healthcare system, education system, numerous sources and
options for entertainment, uninterrupted power supply, being able to stay out
of house till late nights, availability of groceries in the stores, not having
to live with heavy army personnel deployment, etc. are a few things that are
normal for city-dwellers but only a dream for those in border towns and maybe
in the villages in mainland.

In these borderlands, people often have farms on the other side of the border
while they are living in India. The pain they have to go through daily is
probably too much for us city-dwellers to even imagine!

### And yet we can learn from them

Reading about places like Moreh, Minicoy and Campbell Bay made me think that in
spite of our privileges, we city-dwellers are busy discriminating each other
based on caste and religion. We are fighting over petty things. Helping people
in the times of adversity is broadcasted as "spirit of a city" instead of being
considered a norm. 

Living harmoniously with people from different parts of the country is quite
normal in many of these borderlands.

### Few other takeaways for me

I learned many things while reading this book. I was not aware of all
the states in North-East India. After reading about Tawang (Arunachal Pradesh)
and Moreh (Manipur), I looked up the map of North-East India on Google Maps to
better grasp the geography there.

There are multiple truths or angles to any story. Sometimes, while reading
about the story of these people in borderlands, one would feel pity for them.
But then the author was informed by his liaison or driver or someone else that
at times the same people were involved, and often knowingly, in illegal
activities across the border. This was an important takeaway for me. I don't
think I would be able to accept any story from just one angle anymore.

In more than one case, the author came across the situation where a city/town
on the Indian side of the border was full of filth while that on the other side
seemed more developed. Better roads, better eateries, better quality of air
were found on the other side of the border than on the Indian side. I could
personally relate with the description of Jaigaon which is on the Indian side
and yet many people preferring to stay, for a better quality of life, in
Phuentsholing which is in Bhutan.

### That's it

In retrospect, it was a good idea to read a short review of the book and order
it. It took me nearly three months to finish but that's a "me problem". The
book is engrossing enough to finish quickly. And I think there was a time
during these three months when I started reading a different book. I guess I
need to acquire some "book management" skills. :wink:
