+++
title = "Udaipur Trip 2017!" 
date = 2017-11-05T08:18:18+05:30
tags = ["travel", "india"]
+++

This [Diwali](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diwali), me and my wife decided to
visit [Udaipur](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Udaipur). We started on the
morning of New Year day, which is celebrated right after Diwali in
[Gujarat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gujarat).

### Day 1
#### mostly travel and getting trapped in city traffic

On the way, we visited a [Jain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jainism)
[tirth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tirtha_(Jainism)) called
[Rishabhdev](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rishabhdeo) which seemed more of a
[Digambara](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digambara) tirth than
[Shwetambara](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C5%9Av%C4%93t%C4%81mbara) tirth.
The temple was nice. I had already been there once about 10+ years back. But
didn't remember much of it.

After reaching Udaipur around 5 PM, we went out to have food. And in the quest
of visiting couple of places of interest, I got us trapped in city traffic near
[Fateh Sagar Lake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fateh_Sagar_Lake). I took the car to really narrow lanes which were not well suited to drive a car through it. :wink:

### Day 2
#### we absolutely regretted visiting Udaipur

Our first full day in Udaipur started with breakfast with our hosts (we booked
homestay via Airbnb).

Our first stop was [Sajjan Garh
Palace](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monsoon_Palace) or the Monsoon Palace.
Except the view from the top and an ambient cafe, we didn't find anything
really interesting in the palace itself. Kullad chai at the cafe was nice!

Our next stop was the [Sajjangarh Biological
Park](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sangarh_Biological_Park) which is just
beneath the Sajjan Garh Palace. Park itself is pretty nice but the crowd and
the time of day ensured that we wouldn't see many animals. Those we saw, were
in rest mode after their lunch. Apparently, like humans, even animals prefer
having a nap after lunch. :wink:

The biological park is pretty big and considering the hot weather we visited
Udaipur in, it was only wise to roam around the park in a golf car.

Next we went to [Gulab Bagh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gulab_Bagh_and_Zoo)
which is the biggest garden in Udaipur. We wanted to visit the Gulab Bagh
Public Library inside the garden but it was closed. Maybe due to Diwali
holidays. Gulab Bagh was nice to walk through. It's a lush green and peaceful
area in the most visited part of the city.

From Gulab Bagh, we walked to [Udaipur City
Palace](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_Palace,_Udaipur) which is probably
the most visited spot in the city. The rush inside the palace museum was too
much for me and my wife to handle. And there was persistent nuisance from some
fellow tourists - a group of 6-7 guys. It got suffocating due to the rush and
we decided to leave the palace after seeing only a couple of rooms in the
museum.

Thoroughly disappointed because of the insane crowd we were seeing this day, me
and my wife went back to the homestay and decided to rest the next day.

### Day 3
#### it was surprisingly awesome!

We decided a day before to relax at the room and not go out to any tourist
spots in the city. Out of habit, I woke up early and decided to read a book on
[Mewar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mewar) history that I found at the hosts'
place.

Few pages into the book, I got really excited reading about the history. By the
time my wife woke up, I had mentally decided to not relax on this day. :smile:

After some discussion with our host, we decided to visit
[Eklingji](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eklingji) temple because of the
historical significance it has in Mewar. The temple is about 25 km from Udaipur
and our host told us that it might not be as overcrowded as the city itself. We
ensured to visit during the [darshan
timings](http://devasthan.rajasthan.gov.in/images/udaipur/eklingji.htm) so that
we can take a look at all the parts of the temple. It turned out to be a really
good decision on our part and we also got a book from outside the temple that
had more historical facts about the temple detailed in it.

While checking out the nearby places around Eklingji, I found that there are
two more temples which are as old as Eklingji (built in 8th century CE) or
older than it. These were:

- Sahastra Bahu temples
- Shantinath Jain temple

While [Sahastra Bahu
temples](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sahastra_Bahu_Temples) were built in
early 10th century CE, the Jain temple was built around 3000 years back. The
history, carving and landscape of this temples completely amazed us. And they
were not even 10% as crowded as the main city.

I'm glad I read up some history and ended up visiting places of historical
significance. We surely witnessed some amazing architecture that has stood
through the centuries.

In the evening we visited [Maharana Pratap
Smarak](http://www.udaipur.org.uk/monuments/pratap-memorial.html). It is a
museum full of history and miniatures of Chittorgarh, Kumbhalgarh, City Palace,
and battlefield of Haldighati. The view from the top of [Moti
Magri](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moti_Magri) hill where the museum rests is
also nice!

### Day 4
#### we were left dumbstruck

While reading about Mewar's history the previous day, I stumbled upon
[Jaisamand Lake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dhebar_Lake). Since it was a few
hours detour on the highway back to Ahmedabad, we visited this lake on the last
day.

The road from Udaipur to Jaisamand lake is absolutely amazing. It's got a lot
of turnings and a terrain that rises and falls very, very often. Driving car on
this road was nothing short of a pleasure!

Upon reaching Jaisamnd Lake, we were completely blown away by its expanse. It
is an artifical lake and second-largest of its type in India (per some Udaipur
locals, second-largest in Asia). There's also an island in the lake which hosts
a resort. Should be interesting staying there. :wink:

It surprised us how they created such a huge lake so many years back!
Technological advancements back then were almost inexistent yet, the
constructions (lakes and palaces) from that era were surprisingly amazing.

### That's it!

Udaipur is about 4-5 hours drive from Ahmedabad. Roads are pretty good but, if
you're driving at night, beware of the potholes that show up surprisingly on
the highway. There's a good number of restaurants on the highway. 

We plan to visit Udaipur again during off-season period. I'll be updating the
post with few pics of the places I've mentioned. Until next time! :smile:
