+++
title = "Why so many questions?"
date = 2020-11-14T08:33:53+05:30
type = "post"
+++

Why don't we *all* wear a mask? Why don't we maintain social distancing in
crowded or indoor spaces? Why do we ridicule someone who's afraid of getting
infected? Why does an infected person feel tabooed? Why can't we feel empathy
for people who are afraid or people who are infected?

Why do we burst crackers so late into the night? Why doesn't it feel like we
would be disturbing numerous people, animals, birds and other living creatures
in doing so? Why does disturbing someone feel so much entertaining/fun to us?
Why doesn't the condition of old people or that of patients in the hospital
make us think twice before bursting such noisy firecrackers?

Why does killing animals for food not seem unusual? Why can't we have more
vegetarian people? Or, maybe, vegan people? Why can't we value more lives than
just ours and our loved ones?

Why does driving on the wrong side of the road come so naturally to us? Why
can't we understand that saving a few seconds or a few drops of fuel could cost
us way more than we can ever afford to lose - our life? Why does honking
unnecessarily not seem inappropriate to us? In fact, why do we honk to the tune
of the song playing in our head? Why not wearing a seatbelt or helmet seem cool
and not unsafe? Why does lane driving sound like a concept from a different
planet? Why do we use our phones while driving?

Why aren't we disciplined? Why can't we exercise regularly? Why don't we
exercise? Why can't we practice a skill regularly? Why do we expect immediate
results? Why can't we see that the sportspersons we admire or the celebrities
we love are what/where they are because of the discipline we can't even dream
of?

Why are we self-absorbed? Why can't we pause for a second and think about how
our actions would/could affect someone else?

Why are we so polarized? Why do we have to be on the extreme end of left/right
wing? Why can't we be centrist? Why can't we discuss instead of debating
ferociously? Why does religion divide us instead of uniting us? Why, in spite
of preaching vastly similar principles in their holy books, have the religions
or religious leaders not managed to bring about peace in the world? Why are
people ready to do violent acts in the name of religion when all the religions
preach loving your fellow living beings?

Why are we so afraid of asking questions? Why are we so afraid of sounding
dumb from time to time? Why are our egos so bloated? Why can't we have
beginner's mindset where we are actually beginners? Why does it have to be
embarrassing to not know something and actually learn it?

Why don't we talk more deeply with people close to us? Why does sharing
feelings have to be so difficult? Why, in spite of having more than 7 billion
people on this planet, does something not working out with just one person make
us feel like we're not worth it? Why does opinion of that one person matter so
much when there're billions of people and millions who're feeling just as low
as us and craving a real human connection just as badly as us?

Why aren't we willing to be open? Why have we closed our minds and limited
ourselves to the beliefs and customs we grew up with or are/were surrounded by?
Why can't new experiences change our perception? Why does status quo matter so
much?

Why can't I just sleep peacefully at night feeling content of having made it
successfully through yet another day?

Why do I have so many questions? 
